How strong is your core?
Now health experts will tell you that the core is one of the most important group of
muscles that you can strengthen.
These are the muscles that are in the trunk of the body from somewhere around the neck
to the waist.
And a strong core will keep you standing if something knocks against you.
Having a strong core will allow you to carry a heavy weight.
And if you fall, a strong core will help you to get back up on your feet.
So thus experts say that exercises that strengthen the core, these foundational muscles
are so important, especially for older people.
So how strong is your core?
But the real question we want to consider today is how strong is your spiritual core?
Are spiritual foundational muscles?
Now we see the importance of having a strong spiritual core when we look at today's
sex.
In 2 Timothy chapter 3, if you look up in verse 6 here, the apostle Paul is talking about
wicked men who slightly work their ways into households and deceive many.
At verse 8, he talks about Janice and Jambri's who opposed Moses.
These were wicked men, completely corrupted in mind, who tried to discredit everything
that Moses said and did.
And then as we see in today's text, Paul said that wicked men and imposters would arise
in the last days and they would advance from bad to worse.
Well what did Paul say would help Timothy?
What did he need to do?
He needed a strong spiritual core.
What was that?
Well look at what he says in verses 14 and 15, 2 Timothy 3.
He says, you, however, continue in the things that you learned and were persuaded to believe,
knowing from whom you learned them and that from infancy you have known the holy writings,
which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith in Christ Jesus.
Do you see the two things?
And number one is he needed to have a deep understanding and trust of the holy writings,
the scriptures, and two, he needed to never forget to remember from whom he learned all
the good things that he knew.
So he needed to make sure that was solid.
That would help him to deal with the wicked men and imposters.
Now this solid spiritual foundation is what also helped Jesus apostles.
You think about the tactics that the wicked men and imposters used against Jesus and
how this could have affected the apostles or affected us if we had been there.
Let's consider four tactics that they used against Jesus.
Number one, they used lies and misrepresentation.
Turn back if you will to Matthew, chapter 11, verse 9 is an example.
Matthew 1119, excuse me, Matthew 1119, it says, the son of man did come eating and drinking,
but people say, look, a man who is a glutton, who's given to drinking wine, a friend of tax
collectors and sinners.
Now did Jesus like to eat and drink?
Yes.
Did he, in fact, eat with tax collectors and sinners?
But do you know what the wicked men and imposters, they stretched it to say, well, you see because
he's a glutton, he's a drunkard, he is a friend of tax collectors and sinners.
You look at Luke chapter 15 and verse 2, he even kind of insinuates that he condones their
behavior, maybe even he shares in their sins.
What if you were there?
Now we know he liked to eat and drink, but I'm not with him 24 hours a day, I hope that's
not true.
Can you see how that could plant seeds of doubt, how it could rock somebody?
Second tactic, wicked men and imposters would also twist Jesus words.
Look at John chapter 5 and verse 18 as an example.
John chapter 5 and verse 18, and he says, this is why the Jews began seeking all the more
to kill him, because not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was also calling God
his own father, making him equal to God.
So here they twist Jesus words, saying that Jesus was saying he was equal to, Jesus never
said he was equal to God.
He said that he was God's son, he says the father is greater than I am, but they constantly
took Jesus words, repackaged them, twisting them to make it sound like Jesus was off on
his own.
Now what if you heard that story told and retooled?
You didn't hear the conversation, but you heard the story, you heard the sound bite.
Wow, did he really say that?
Now that would be out of line if he had, because nobody's equal to God.
They also capitalized on errors that were made.
Look over to Luke chapter 9.
You remember this is the account when the disciples could not cast out the demon of the
young man, and you look at verse 40 here, the father says, Luke 9.40, he says, I begged
your disciples to expel it, but they could not.
In response, Jesus said, oh, faithless and twisted generation, how long must I continue
with you and put up with you?
Bring your son over here.
Now as we know, apparently the scribes were criticizing the disciples because of their
failure to heal the boy.
Now again, what if you were standing there?
What if you saw this one with your own eyes?
Wait a minute, those are Jesus' disciples.
That's their commission.
That's what they're supposed to do.
Perhaps these people aren't as special as I thought they were.
Wicked men and imposter would also inflame statements that people did not understand.
Look at Luke, excuse me, John, chapter 6, and verse 54.
You remember here when Jesus said, whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has everlasting
life, and I will resurrect him in the last day.
What was the reaction?
You look at verse 60.
When they heard this many of the disciples said this speech is shocking.
Who can listen to it?
Verse 66, they went off to things behind and would no longer follow him.
See rather than giving it time to see if they understood it correctly, waiting to see
if maybe Jesus clarified the statement, it knocked them.
And you notice in verse 52, the Jews further stirred this up, and because of that many stopped
following him.
It was too heavy for them to carry.
Now what if you were there, and this time you heard Jesus say that, whoa, man, that's
odd.
I don't think I can explain that teaching.
He seems to be getting more and more extreme.
Well how did many react to these attacks?
Well the crowds, they loved to follow Jesus.
They loved to hear his winsome words, no man's ever spoken like this.
Thousands would come to be fed by him, to be healed by him.
But in the end, most did not stick with Jesus.
Why?
Well because when you strip all the other peripherals away, all the other extras away,
they came down to their faith in Bible prophecy, and that this man that was speaking to them
was the Son of God.
Their spiritual core was not strong enough.
Now Jesus' disciples had a strong spiritual core.
See even though they did get knocked down, they got confused at times.
They stayed solid.
They were able to get back up.
Why?
Because they recalled the scriptures and they were convinced that they were listening
to the Son of God.
Well today wicked men in imposter's use exactly the same techniques, and it's only going
to get worse.
They use lies and misrepresentation.
They lie about how we deal with child abusers, how we care for the victims of child abuse.
They twist statements that are made regarding our stand on blood, loyalty to families,
disfellowshipping.
They capitalize on what they perceive as errors.
They have dogmatic statements we made in the past regarding a Bible prophecy or understanding
of the time of the end, and then we later changed it.
They also put a negative spin on changes that they do not understand.
They say why we simplified, did reassignments in 2015, and new explanations of the generation
changes at world headquarters.
What's the result?
Well some are swayed by these things.
They're stumbled.
They're knocked down.
It's too heavy for them to carry.
How about us?
How strong is our spiritual core?
See, that's why we here repeatedly that we must personally have a regular, deep study
of the Scriptures.
That's why we're reminded repeatedly that Jehovah is using the governing body to give
us the good things that we have.
Now, why is that so important?
Well, because one day we may hit a time where they're personally in our personal life or
as an organization when all the other spiritual peripherals are gone, all the extras.
What do we do then?
What do we do, for example, if the lights go out on broadcasting?
What happens perhaps when we don't have the incredible conventions, the touching videos,
the catchy music that beautifully written, well-written, watched our articles, the exciting
annual meetings.
They're gone.
See some of our brothers and sisters do not have access to those things right now.
We see at that time, it will come down to our faith that this is God's Word, and the
governing body is the channel that Jehovah has been using.
So during this period of relative calm, may we follow the advice of the Apostle Paul
and 2 Timothy 3, 14, and 15?
Know the holy writings inside and out, and remember from whom we've learned all the
good things that we know.
That's our spiritual core.
Strengthen it, maintain it, it will stabilize us, and it will help us to get through the
things that are yet to come.